>>>>[BACKGROUND MUSIC] And
I think many people today
don't know what to
believe anymore.
>>People are basically
going to keep on
to help uncover what
really happened.
>>I felt like something
was watching me.
>>We weren't given
all the information.
We weren't told
the entire story.
>>GEORGE NOORY:
Well, welcome back
to another edition of
"Beyond Belief," where
we talk about all kinds
of mysteries happening
on this planet and
throughout the universe.
And we've got another
one for you now.
Jason Martell.
I'll call him a
modern day explorer.
He researches ancient
civilizations.
And let me tell you something.
He finds answers to a
lot of our questions,
such as, how did
they do these things?
Welcome back, Jason.
>>JASON MARTELL: Thanks, George.
It's a pleasure
to be on the show.
>>NOORY: How did these
ancients do what they did?
>>MARTELL: Well, they
had to have been doing it
with some assistance
of technology.
Again, a lot of the things
that we see architecturally,
looking at some of
these megalithic sites,
it really raises
a lot of questions
as to how they could get these
stones to fit so well together
and how they built the
structures so perfectly aligned
to repeating
astronomical alignments.
>>NOORY: What kind of
help did they have?
>>MARTELL: Well, you know, and
that's really the question.
Was it aliens that helped
us in the past or was it us?
And truthfully, I'm leaning
more towards the us.
It turns out that there is
some lost cycle of time,
well off the recorded
books of our history
that we understand now, that
shows human evolution appears
to be going through a cycle.
We've heard of the Dark
Ages or the Golden Age.
So I think it's very
possible that we
are going to further discover
things about our past
very soon here in the future.
>>NOORY: Michael Cremo
in his work, Jason,
believes that mankind is much
older than we think it is.
I mean hundreds of
millions of years older.
I've always weighed that,
too, the possibilities of
did we do this ourselves
or did ETs help us.
And let's think for a moment
that, like you say, we did it.
What if civilizations
weren't 300,000 years old,
but millions of years old?
And that we had technology that
would dwarf what we have today.
Maybe we went to the moon
back 5 million years ago.
Who knows?
Is that possible?
>>MARTELL: It's a heavy thought.
And really anything's possible.
I mean, we find a
spark plug buried
in rock layers that show
it's 30 million years old.
It's a spark plug.
Or all of these types of
anomalies, artifacts that,
again, like you mentioned
with Cremo's book,
"Forbidden Archeology,"
he points out things
that just kind of stand out.
The problem is, is finding a
complete civilization where
they can put into
context how they
were using that technology.
So there's a big gap
between what we currently
end at the Sumerian culture
at 3800 BC into this, right.
Things that are
millions of years old
and are clearly technological.
>>NOORY: Scientists have
just discovered an ocean
400 miles down into the mantle.
That is huge.
Perhaps bigger than what we have
on the outside of the planet.
And I'm saying to
myself, how in the heck
did the water get down there?
Was this seepage
from our oceans?
But the fact is that it's there,
and they just discovered it
after how many years,
tells me that there's
so much out there
about our planet
that we just have no idea.
>>MARTELL: Maybe it's
even a hollow Earth.
I mean, there's been
lots of theories that
state certain areas in
Antarctica or Alaska,
people either flew
directly in our somehow
made an expedition to
the interior the Earth.
Who really knows?
But with our technology, I
hope a lot of these things
can be answered.
Discovering an ocean.
That's amazing.
>>NOORY: Well, you
know, the original movie
of "Journey to the
Center of the Earth"
with our dear friend
Pat Boone clearly
had an ocean inside the planet.
And here we are,
with science today
telling us there's a big
ocean inside the planet.
It just is illogical that
they would have it then
and we're finding out now.
It's baffling.
>>MARTELL: It almost
seems, too, that even
on the surface of
the planet now,
there are things
in our deep oceans
that are more foreign to
us than our outer space.
So totally makes sense,
George, that there
could be interior
realms within our earth
that, up till now, have
been mythological tales,
but maybe there's some
reality to that as well.
>>NOORY: Jason, tell us a
little bit about your missions,
where you go and what
you're looking for.
>>MARTELL: Well, we just
started a new organization
called Ancient Explorers.
And the idea is to
take experts and go
to some of these
world-renowned locations--
Machu Picchu, Sacsayhuaman--
various places where there's
this architecture of building
style, but also in placement.
Places where they spent great
detail monitoring the heavens.
So that's really the quest
that I'm planning over
the next few years is several
expeditions where we're
going to take groups
of people with us,
but also deploy technology--
ground-penetrating radar,
high resolution aerial
drone photography--
and start to map out
and look for things that
might be on the tertiary
of some of these sites
and haven't been discovered.
>>NOORY: Are you looking for
things like the Nazca lines
that are in Peru,
things like that?
>>MARTELL: That's
a great example,
George, is all over
Nazca, everyone
knows of the lines
on the plateaus.
But on the surrounding
mountain range,
there are geometric figurines
and mathematical diagrams.
Really, the only people
that investigated this
were, I think, Erich
von Daniken in one
of his "Chariots of
the Gods" videos.
But it's not a well
known thing to see
all these mathematical
geometric figures in Nazca
in the mountain ranges.
And you can only see
them from the sky.
>>NOORY: I'm still
baffled by the pyramids.
I'm baffled by things
like Stonehenge
and how these things
might have been created.
>>MARTELL: Me, too.
I mean, you bring
up the pyramids.
And one of the things that
we've been looking into
is the whole idea that the
great sarcophagus in the King's
Chamber doesn't have a lid.
It's just a box.
And surprisingly, the dimensions
of that great sarcophagus
are identical to the
Lost Ark of the Covenant.
That thing that we
always see with laser
beams and high energy
source, that possibly
could have been sitting in the
Great Pyramid, powering it.
Now, I say that because
the depiction of Moses
and the Ark, all
throughout Egypt
there are a golden box with
a pole on each side being
referenced and shown well
before Moses' exodus.
So there is some possibility
that the Great Pyramid
was a large energy reactor.
And I know many scholars,
Christopher Dunn and others,
have looked at the idea of how
Giza and these three pyramids
are harnessing
energy in some way.
>>NOORY: Do you
go on excavations
or merely exploring tours?
>>MARTELL: Well there's
two ways to do it.
Tours is more or less
for the public outreach
and getting people
to be involved.
>>NOORY: And you let
them come with you.
>>MARTELL: We let
them come with us.
And the excavations really
is more of a business play.
A lot of the times when we go
to sites like Machu Picchu,
and we want to deploy
aerial drone photography,
you can't do that.
But by working with the
local military or the tourism
organization and donating
all of our drones
once we're done, somehow
they're a little bit more
accepting to
allowing us to film.
So we use political
means, business means,
to get access where we then
want to have the ability
to take the tour.
>>NOORY: Jason, in our previous
Beyond Belief program with you,
we touched on just
briefly the artifacts
that the ancients
have left behind,
The Baghdad Battery
being one of them.
Tell us a little
bit more about that.
>>MARTELL: Well,
the Baghdad Battery,
again, is well known
in mainstream science.
And very interesting
depiction of it
is that it was used to
electroplate jewelry.
And another thing that they
theorize it was used for
was, you know, back
thousands of years ago,
ancient churches would
always be competing.
And so sometimes they would
use the Baghdad Battery
and connect it to a statue, and
create a large static build-up.
So that you'd walk in and
if you touched the statue--
>>NOORY: You can feel it.
>>MARTELL: --you'd
get a zzz and you'd
be like, oh, the power of God.
>>NOORY: It's alive!
It's alive.
Yeah.
>>MARTELL: Right.
So that's kind of interesting.
But alternative use is
it was a power source.
It was literally a battery.
And interestingly enough,
George, the Baghdad Battery
that we well know of,
all throughout Egypt
we see larger versions,
possibly 6 feet tall.
>>NOORY: Same concept?
>>MARTELL: Same concept.
>>NOORY: And talk
about that concept.
How did it work?
>>MARTELL: So if you think
about using something
this size to power--
we've tested on camera
and got about 4 volts off of
a battery about 4 inches tall.
>>NOORY: It does work.
>>MARTELL: So if you
figure one 6 feet tall,
maybe we can generate
literally hundreds of volts.
And you start to
apply that towards
other technological references.
>>NOORY: Did they not say
that the Ark of the Covenant,
when touched, could
electrify you, basically?
>>MARTELL: That's right.
And there's a great
pharaoh named Akhenaten,
but possibly was
also known as Moses.
There's a whole other story
to the exodus of Moses,
where Akhenaten was
this great pharaoh that
left Egypt and took his people.
But he also took the Ark of the
Covenant, this battery source.
Again, all throughout
ancient Egypt,
there are depictions
of the Ark, predating
it being used to carry the Ten
Commandments, still in Egypt.
So I think if Moses was
Akhenaten, this great pharaoh,
he took the Ark
with him and that's
a great reason why the pharaoh
would come charging after him.
He wanted his battery back.
>>NOORY: I also think it could
have been a light source,
possibly.
>>MARTELL: Well, you're right.
It was always depicted--
>>NOORY: Like a flashlight.
>>MARTELL: --of lights
and energy coming off it,
so it could have
also have been used
as some type of large
light source as well.
>>NOORY: How would they have had
knowledge even to do that then?
That's what we talk about
this knowledge that is lost.
I mean, who would come up with
a rod, copper wire around it,
electrify it, electrolyte
on the inside.
How would they know that?
>>MARTELL: Well, the
easiest explanation
is to say that aliens
gave it to ancient man.
And I don't think it's
that simple, George.
I think we have a lost
epoch of civilizations.
And there seems to be
one great civilization
that I'm on the coattails
of trying to figure out.
Right now we call it Atlantis.
I don't think it's Atlantis.
>>NOORY: I think you're
right because I think
if aliens gave us
battery technology,
it wouldn't have been
in that primitive form.
>>MARTELL: Probably not.
It'd be something way--
>>NOORY: Like what
we have today.
>>MARTELL: Or
something way fantastic
that we're just
scratching our heads.
>>NOORY: Lithium.
>>MARTELL: Lithium.
But what we do find is that
there is strong evidence
to suggest there have been high
technological civilizations
that influenced all the
great ancients we know
of today-- the Aztecs,
Mayans, Sumerians.
They all seem to have pieces of
this lost ancient technological
civilization that, today, we
hint at as calling it Atlantis.
It's a much deeper question
that's being explored.
>>NOORY: This lost
cycle of time,
whether it was with how did
the pyramids get made-- what
happened, in your opinion,
for it just to go away?
And let me cite an example.
Even over our 200 years,
let's say, since the 1800s
to where we are today, there
is a chronology of information.
There is nothing we have missed.
We know exactly what happened
then-- the bubonic plague.
We know everything.
We know everything
that happened.
It's all cataloged.
>>MARTELL: For 200 years.
>>NOORY: And we know.
So let's go way back
to the ancients.
Where did it get lost?
I mean, the Bible is written.
Tablets are found.
They talk about these
ancient stories.
But then it ends.
Something stops.
Nowhere can I find
how did they build
the pyramids or
anything like that.
Why not?
>>MARTELL: It's a very esoteric
question to answer, George.
The answer I'd give you is that
we go through a repeating cycle
here on Earth that causes a
rise and fall of civilization.
Right now, we've heard
of the Dark Ages, what
we've just kind of came out
of over the last few thousand
years.
And we've also heard
of the Golden Age.
So it appears that
history might not just
be linear, that we
were dumb in the past
and we're going to be
smart in the future.
It's not that simple.
It appears that we went through
something recently called
the Dark Ages.
>>NOORY: Something
happened to us.
>>MARTELL: And we lost
a lot of the information
that we can trace happened.
Meaning, if we look
at the Sumerians
and the ancient Egyptians,
high levels of astronomy.
High levels of architecture.
We go into the Dark
Ages, we forget it all.
And as we start to come
out, Copernicus and Galileo
start to rediscover,
well, wait a minute.
We're not the center.
We orbit the sun.
The Sumerians and
Egyptians knew that
just a few thousand years ago.
So it's like they
were just starting
to lose all the information
as we went to the Dark Ages.
We're now starting to rediscover
it all again exponentially.
And everyone feels the
increase in knowledge.
>>NOORY: Could there have
been a catastrophe that
wiped everything out,
albeit the flood,
where we lost the knowledge?
It stopped?
There was no chronology?
>>MARTELL: It could.
And there's a
paradox there in that
this cycle that repeats, the
last Golden Age that we were in
was around 10,500 BC.
And at that time,
it was postulated
that we had a great flood.
So it could be a yin
and yang situation here
of when we are in the Golden
Age, that doesn't preclude us
from having
catastrophic events that
could cut all that
knowledge in half
or reduce it significantly.
>>NOORY: In your
explorations, you
come across structures
that have been
built by man that
are very strange.
And I'll call the pyramids that
way or Stonehenge that way.
What are they for?
What do they represent?
>>MARTELL: Well, I
think the vast majority
of these structures have
astronomical references.
They were either used as an
outpost to monitor the heavens
or they were built,
like the Giza pyramids,
as ways to mark specific
alignments that repeat.
We now know that the
three pyramids in Giza
are forming a terrestrial
map of the sky of the Orion
constellation, the
three pyramids.
But that alignment doesn't take
place until 10,000 years ago--
actually, 13,000 years ago.
So somehow, the Egyptians, if
they were around in 2500 BC,
built the pyramids that aligned
to the Orion constellation
at 10,500 BC.
Why?
Either the Egyptians have
been around a much longer time
than we think or the
Egyptians are also
aware of this cycle
of time, and were
pointing back to saying that's
when we were at our Golden Age.
That's when we
are at the highest
point of our civilization.
And we're acknowledging it in
this astronomical alignment.
But we don't know for sure yet.
>>NOORY: Well now, this
structure I want to show you.
This stacked wall, for example.
>>MARTELL: Sure, Sacsayhuaman.
>>NOORY: What is that?
>>MARTELL: This is
the classic type
of architecture of mortarless
technology, where they were
able to heat these stones
to a lava-like state.
And then it's very
easy and pliable
to stack them and
fit them together.
>>NOORY: How would they touch
them if they were that hot?
>>MARTELL: Don't know.
How would they move them?
>>NOORY: How would
they move them?
>>MARTELL: Don't know.
But we can see that
there's a glassing
effect from high heat,
which we call vitrification.
It's a byproduct of any
type of high heat being
exposed to a stone.
And then it re-hardens.
So all throughout
these megalithic sites,
this type of building style
is accompanied by high heat.
And we don't know
how ancient man
was able to heat the stones
to a lava-like state.
They didn't have any technology
that we're aware of to do that.
>>NOORY: How high
is that, Jason?
What are the dimensions of that?
>>MARTELL: Well, I don't
know the actual dimensions
of Sacsayhuaman.
But we're probably looking
at about a 50-foot wall.
If you can look in
the far left corner,
you might see some people.
>>NOORY: So they're really
dinky next to that wall.
>>MARTELL: They really are.
There these are megalithic
sites, so most of these stones
are trilithon stones, stones
that weigh hundreds of tons.
>>NOORY: If you
build a wall, you
generally are building it to
keep something out, aren't you?
>>MARTELL: You know, what's
really interesting, too,
a lot of these sites, like all
over Peru and South America,
they were sites that were
built next to a standing lake,
like Lake Titicaca or Giza
being right next to the Nile.
We can now look at these sites
and see that Lake Titicaca lays
several miles from these
sites, just like Giza
is several miles
away from the Nile.
So those are, again,
geological references to date
these without carbon dating.
We can see geological
pieces that we
can track the time that it
must have taken for the waters
to recede and give us an
idea of their true age.
And it's much older than we
are currently think it is.
>>NOORY: It is.
Absolutely.
Stonehenge has
always fascinated me.
That structure.
What do you think that was for?
>>MARTELL: Well, we
know it was, again,
to monitor this knowledge of
the movements of the heavens.
It marked vernal
equinoxes and knew
when certain alignments
were taking place.
But really, not only is
it the knowledge of making
these alignments happen,
it's the architecture.
How were they able
to move and stack
stones that were so large.
>>NOORY: Again,
the big question.
The big question.
>>MARTELL: One of the
theories that we hear come out
of possible ancient
aliens and theories
like this is some type of
lost levitation or sound.
>>NOORY: Precisely.
Resonance.
>>MARTELL: Right.
And there's been things
now today in modern science
where they can literally
use sound and hover
a layer of water in
midair on top of sound.
So maybe it's a
small taste of what
they were doing with sites
like Stonehenge, moving rocks.
>>NOORY: Well, it reminds
me of Coral Castle
down in Florida,
Homestead, Florida,
where the old man Edward
Leadskalnin, 120 pounds
from Latvia, moved stones as
big as Stonehenge by himself.
>>MARTELL: Really amazing.
>>NOORY: He basically
hinted that he
knew the secret of
levitation, of magnetics.
>>MARTELL: Who knows?
>>NOORY: Who knows, right?
>>MARTELL: He really could
have been on to something.
And I think the more we
explore these alternative views
with Tesla technology
and sound vibration, even
things that we're doing at
the Large Hadron Collider
at CERN, subatomic
collision of particles,
we're literally discovering
new particles and things that
show us there is
another level of science
that we're going to start
to utilize once we can just
wrap our hands around it.
>>NOORY: For you as
an ancient explorer,
what has been the oh
wow effect for you?
>>MARTELL: I think
the oh wow effect
for me is just realizing
that history is much more
interesting than we think.
I've always been fascinated
by ancient cultures,
but we kind of know
everything now.
And so getting that sense of
wonder is really something
I strive for in
my life, and push
myself to keep
things interesting,
to have that sense of curiosity.
And so that's what
really drives me
to wanting to go
to these locations.
And not just visit them,
but turn over a new stone
while I'm there.
>>NOORY: Literally.
>>MARTELL: Yeah.
>>NOORY: Have you ever
tried to find Atlantis?
>>MARTELL: Well, just
recently, with my partner
through Ancient Explorers,
we traveled to Dwarka
as you well know.
And there are, again, sites
that are being discovered
that are underwater,
right off the coast of--
>>NOORY: Deeply under water.
>>MARTELL: Yeah.
Right off the coast of
many of our continents.
So I don't think it's
just one city that sank.
There seems to be many of them--
Dwarka, Yonaguni, Atlantis.
Even sites like Gobekli
Tepe in Turkey or Rapa
Nui, Easter Island,
way out there.
Again, I think we
just need to go
through these sites
with a fine tooth comb,
and we're going to
start to find more
connections with these sites.
>>NOORY: What do you think
caused these areas to sink?
Surely it's not the
rise of sea level.
They could not have
gone that high.
>>MARTELL: No.
You're right.
>>NOORY: Something happened.
>>MARTELL: There must
have been something.
>>NOORY: They went down,
something like that.
>>MARTELL: Yeah.
There must have been some
cataclysmic event, or something
that we just can't quite define
that shows those cultures
and pushed them to bury
a lot of their evidence.
Like Gobekli Tepe was
buried under the sands.
The moai heads in Easter Island.
>>NOORY: They buried them.
>>MARTELL: They did.
They buried them.
The moai heads in Easter Island.
We know that they're
not just heads
when we rip away the sand.
>>NOORY: They're bodies.
>>MARTELL: They're full bodies.
So why did they cover them up?
We don't know.
>>NOORY: And they
say in Easter Island
that they moved those
structures by walking them.
>>MARTELL: Very odd.
>>NOORY: Pulling
them back and forth
as they basically
walked into place.
I find that hard to believe.
>>MARTELL: I think that that
is one of the suggested views.
And there have been some
successful recreations of that,
but more with smaller statues.
Some of the more
megalithic-size stones,
I still think there
is a challenge where
we find stones that
weren't fully quarried
and are still in the
quarry site and then moved.
And it's literally
several miles.
Sometimes 5, 10 miles that
they were moving these stones.
So it really raises
a lot of questions.
>>NOORY: What do you think
will be the dramatic discovery
for us, Jason, that's out
there that we haven't really
even put together yet?
>>MARTELL: I think the big
whistleblower in the next 15
years, in my
personal opinion, is
going to be life
beyond planet Earth.
>>NOORY: Are you a
believer in that?
>>MARTELL: Big time.
Bacterial form, plants.
>>NOORY: That's
not exciting to me.
Is it to you?
>>MARTELL: It's the
foot in the door.
>>NOORY: If we go to
Mars and say, hey,
there's bacteria there--
>>MARTELL: I'll be bummed.
>>NOORY: --big deal.
>>MARTELL: Yeah, right.
>>NOORY: Come on.
>>MARTELL: No.
I think it's just
we're on a track
that very soon, these
types of discoveries,
the scientific community will
just have to acknowledge it.
And hopefully, it will
lead to bigger doorways
like small lifeforms or,
hopefully, intelligent life.
I mean, I think it
definitely exists.
Our path to
interacting with them
is very murky in trying to
ascertain that with you,
with looking at the
current envelope
that we would call ufology.
>>NOORY: Many believe
we've been visited
and continue to be visited.
Where are you in that camp?
>>MARTELL: Well,
I definitely think
that we've had
visitations in the past.
And if anyone looks at our
current layer of ufology,
there's something
continuing today.
And it's something that
the public hopefully
will be ready for
in our lifetime.
I think at my age of 40--
>>NOORY: You're ready for it.
>>MARTELL: Let's do this.
>>NOORY: If they made
an announcement today.
If they said ladies
and gentlemen,
we have been withholding
information from you since 1947
because we didn't
want you to be scared.
We were concerned that
you would go crazy.
How do you think people
would handle that?
>>MARTELL: They'd probably
say, I knew it all along.
>>NOORY: I know it.
Those liars.
Why didn't they tell us?
>>MARTELL: Yeah.
And since NASA's
inceptions, right?
The Brookings Institute,
"The Brookings Report."
We have outdated procedures.
>>NOORY: Which
basically said people
would panic if you told them.
>>MARTELL: Yeah.
We just have outdated
procedures that
hopefully some of
these new discoveries,
whether it's just
some bacteria on Mars,
the policies then need
to be rediscovered.
If you've got just a
fraction of a chance, that
opens the door to
yes, it is possible.
>>NOORY: Would it
help or hurt religion?
>>MARTELL: I think it would
definitely help religion.
Everything that I'm
seeing-- You know,
I was raised as a Christian.
And everything that I see from
my research into these topics
is more and more people,
regardless of their religion,
are becoming more curious
about their neighbor's view
or what happened in the country
next door, because we start
to see a crossover in the
stories of where we come from,
all overlapping and kind of
telling a very similar story.
>>NOORY: But you don't
think people will panic.
>>MARTELL: No.
>>NOORY: Or we lose control.
Riots in the streets.
>>MARTELL: Probably not.
In my opinion, probably not.
I think if literally
there was even
some ufological event like
all of a sudden, Jesus,
let's say, something that
looked like Jesus was on a cloud
and descended over Wilshire
Boulevard in Beverly Hills,
people would freak out.
But then instantly we return
to the scientific mind.
Well, what type of
gaseous atmosphere
is allowing him to float?
His robes, what are those
materials made out of?
So I think we have more of a
interest of a scientific layer
rather than a religious layer
that's always been in the past
how we would view any
type of phenomenon.
>>NOORY: Is there,
or has there been,
based on the things
you've looked at, Jason,
is there a dark
side of any of this?
>>MARTELL: Yeah.
Yeah, I personally
believe like anything,
there's light and
dark, yin and yang.
And what we unfortunately have
to deal with is good and bad.
I couldn't really
give you an answer
other than my personal opinion.
And I think that, for whatever
reason-- my personal opinion--
that the dark forces,
however that be,
the watchers or bad
aliens, are very vague.
>>NOORY: Or the globalists.
>>MARTELL: I think
that there's been
bad influence for a long time.
And that's slowly
starting to lose--
they're starting
to lose that grasp.
And more positive influence,
knowledge and things
about our past where
we start to realize
the significance of
where we come from,
are starting to
overshadow these things
that, as you said, over
the last 200 years,
we've been so articulate,
chronologically seeing
our record.
But that's just 200 years.
When we start to
look 200,000 years,
200 years really is not as
much of a context significance.
>>NOORY: What would be for you
the most incredible discovery?
>>MARTELL: I guess
in my lifetime,
I'd really love to
see intelligent beings
interact with humanity openly.
I mean, that seems to have
been a norm in the past.
The Sumerians interacting
with their Annunaki.
The Mayans and
Aztecs interacting
with Kukulcan or Viracocha.
So all around the
world, even the Hindus
and their Vedic gods, there
was a time in ancient times
several thousand years ago
where man openly interacted
with these beings they
thought were gods.
Today we look at
it as mythology.
I'd love for that gap
to be bridged again.
>>NOORY: Fallen angels.
What were they?
>>MARTELL: Well, you
mentioned good and bad.
So I think there's possibly in
other scenarios of how we would
interpret biblical tales, there
were arguments, and squabbles,
and disagreements between
what we labeled as gods.
And so a lot of these gods
had their own agendas.
And some of them
were in alignment,
some of them weren't.
So it seems to have
been a time in our past
when, right after we were done
interacting with these gods,
they left for some reason.
Maybe they had great battles.
>>NOORY: Maybe
their job was done.
>>MARTELL: We really don't know.
But there is definitely a
lost piece of our history
where we connected
with these beings.
And I'd really like to
see that happen again.
>>NOORY: Greek mythology.
I'm convinced that those
gods were extraterrestrials.
>>MARTELL: Well, what's
interesting about the pantheon
of gods in Greek mythology
is that the whole idea of 12
is repeated from other cultures.
>>NOORY: 12 Apostles.
>>MARTELL: Right.
The 12 disciples of Jesus.
The 12 tribes of Israel.
The 12 Greek Olympians.
The Annunaki coming
from the 12th planet.
So there is a thread
of information.
>>NOORY: 12th day of Christmas.
>>MARTELL: 12th
day of Christmas.
There is a thread
of information that
has spidered into
all of our time,
and calendar, and
date-- dating system
that seems to have been used
thousands of years in the past.
And when we shift to
this Gregorian calendar,
we lost some of the accuracies
that are natural rhythmic
flows that ancient man had.
Meaning, in the past,
over 30 ancient cultures
used astronomical references
as a celestial calendar
and were much more in tune with
the natural rhythms of nature.
We've kind of lost
that, and are now
starting to look at
that with fascination
and realizing that the
Egyptians, and Mayans,
and various ancient
cultures were somehow
in tune with this
connection that we now
are striving to understand.
>>NOORY: What you do has
got to be fascinating.
>>MARTELL: It really is, George.
I'm very grateful to
get to do what I do.
And many people ask, how
can I do this for a living
or become an ancient
astronaut theorist?
And I say, you just
need to find what
you're passionate about in life.
It could be stamps.
If you like stamps,
then go big in stamps.
But do something that
allows, in your business,
the ability for you to
then explore these topics.
>>NOORY: And be one of
the best at what you do.
There really isn't
a lot of money
to be made as an entrepreneur
in exploring ancient sites.
>>NOORY: Unless you find it.
>>MARTELL: Well,
unless you find it.
>>NOORY: You find it.
>>MARTELL: But the
entrepreneurs around the world
can definitely unite
and help further
move this needle
of understanding.
>>NOORY: If you found
the Ark of the Covenant,
what would you do with it?
>>MARTELL: Well, if they let
me publicly talk about it,
I'd come on your show and be
like, George, it's the Ark.
>>NOORY: Would it be
yours if you found it?
>>MARTELL: No, it
would not be mine.
>>NOORY: It would not be.
>>MARTELL: It would
be the world's.
>>NOORY: It's not
finders keepers?
>>MARTELL: No.
You know, "National Treasure,"
and Nicolas Cage and those
shows, I think are great because
we all want to have wealth.
But as you mentioned, I think
if anyone is lucky enough
to discover or find something--
>>NOORY: Something like that.
>>MARTELL: --on
that level, wealth
is probably just a piece
of that great platter being
delivered to you.
>>NOORY: You couldn't
sell it for $1 billion,
the Ark of the Covenant?
>>MARTELL: $1 billion
only gets you so far.
But if sharing that
with the world--
that's something that will
extend beyond your lifetime.
I probably couldn't
spend $1 billion
as a human being anyways.
>>NOORY: Jason, thanks for
being on "Beyond Belief."
>>MARTELL: My pleasure, George.
>>NOORY: There's
nothing like it.
Hes an ancient explorer.
He's looking for past
civilizations and knowledge
of the things they possessed.
Knowledge that might
exceed what we do today.
I'm George Noory, and thanks
for watching "Beyond Belief."